Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. Vocabulary and set of grammatical rules for instructing a computing device to perform specific tasks.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. Java Development kit is the full software development kit to create and compile programs.

What is IDE?
A. Integrated development environment is a type of java application for development which provides source code editor,
   automation tools, debugger, and other useful tools.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Netbeans, eclipse, and IntelliJ

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. Java program begins as a sequences of characters in the source code which is compiled into a .class file by the Java
compiler which now allows the file to by interpreted and ran by the jvm.

what is class?
A. Program-code-template (blueprint of an application)

What is object?
A. Instance of a class

What is the entry point of an application?
A. Where the program begins running

Why main is static?
A. So JVM can call methods which have no existing object

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. java.lang.Object

What is difference between path and classpath environment variables?
A. Path locates JDK binaries that are ysed ti compile java source file and run program.
   Classpath locates and load compiles Java bytecodes stored in the .class file.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Abstract class can have both implemented and unimplemented methods whereas interface can only have unimplemented
   methods.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. No. One of its subclasses/implementers must be instantiated.

what is Access Specifier?
A. Sets the level of access you want for classes, methods, constructors.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. Oop lets us create working methods & variables that can be reused in entirety or parts without compromising secuirty
   Abstraction-Create common base class, with at least one method not implemented, that can be extended to multiple other
   classes which can override those methods.
   Inheritance- Create new classes that shares attributes of existing classes.
   Polymorphism- Implement multiple methods within the same class that use the same name but a different set of parameters
   Encapsulation- Keeping fields within a class private, then providing access to them via public methods so that data
   code can be reused wuthout compromising safety by allowing open access system wide.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. java.lang

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. Application Programming Interface

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. No. Different classes may have different methods.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. Allows different methods to have same name but different signatures which differ by number and/or type of input parameters

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. Errors that occur during runtime.
   Try block that encloses the code section which might throw an exception,
   one or more catch blocks that handle the exception and finally block which gets executed after the try block
   was successfully executed or a thrown exception was handled

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. Signals that it belongs to the class instead of a specific instance. Static variables should be used when they are
   not unique for each instance to be created.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. Makes the variable a constant and unable to be changed.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. Final is used to apply restrictins on class, method, and variable so that it cant be inherited, overridden, nor changed.
   Finally is used in exception handling that is always performed.
   Finalize is a method used to clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor ?
A. Called when creating instance of an object. Allows you to provide initial values for class fields when object is created

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Yes

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Default constructor

What is "this" keyword in java ?

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?

What is JVM stand for ?

Is JVM platform independent?

What version of java are you using?

What is JAR stand for ?

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?

What is compile time and run time?

What is heap?

How java manage it's memory?

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?

What is Singleton class?

What is Serialization and Deserialization?

when to use transient variable in java?

Difference between while and do..while loop?

What is Enum?

What is Iterator?

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?

Why is String Immutable in Java?

What is constructor chaining in Java?

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?

What is JIT stands for?

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?

what is multithreading in java?

What is the use of synchronization in Java?

What is Framework?

What are the testing Framework available in java?

Difference between jUnit and testNG?

What are the dependencies for this project?

what is dependency injection in java?

What is static binding and dynamic binding?









